The meta situation is actually somehow
worse. For those that don't know
anything about meta, Facebook, or the
Instagram situation, let me just give
you a quick uh speed run of its history.
Facebook went super hard in VR, then
found out, "Yo, VR is not actually where
it's at. It's all about AI." And then
decided that it's going to fire a
roughly 10% of its company or 8,000
employees and focus super hard on AI.
And a part of that focusing super hard
on AI, it's going to record everybody's
desktop and everything you do and then
feed that to the AI. Not only that, it's
going to create a new organization,
Applied AI, where it's going to put
approximately 10% of the company into
it, where they're going to help train
and make the next generation of AI. Of
course, during all this, is Zuckerberg
on a phone call called everybody super
highly intelligent, the most high-IQ
people in the valley. And then after
saying all of that, said that the reason
why they're recording your desktop and
not telling you why is because it's for
your own best interest.
>> Not strategically in your interest for
us to communicate everything like in all
the detail that we normally would on
this.
>> But now, the internals are coming out.
Employees are coming forward and
speaking about what's actually going on
inside of Facebook. They They does not
look good. It does not look good at all.
In fact, this is somehow the least bad
thing coming out of Facebook, which is
they just shipped JSON that's not even
possible to production. The golden age
of slop has arrived and it's happening
right now live at Facebook. But the
internal employee morale is even worse
than this. Like imagine working at a
place where they're like, "You ain't got
time to set up a CI/CD pipeline to make
sure JSON parses." That's where we're
at. But first, I'd like to say a quick
thank you to the sponsors.
>> Hey, is that HTTP? Get that out of here.
That's not how we order coffee. We order
coffee via SSH, terminal.shop. Yeah, you
want a real experience? You want real
coffee? You want awesome subscription so
you never have to remember again? Oh,
you want exclusive blends with exclusive
coffee and exclusive content? Then check
out Crown. You don't know what SSH is?
Well, maybe the coffee is not for you.
>> [music]
>> All right, thank you. The best way to
support the channel, check out the
sponsors. Links down in the description.
Okay, so welcome back. Let's talk about
this. We're going to look at this by
looking at what the employees are
saying. I am going to both laugh at the
situation and make fun of an employee or
two for this because they describe
things rather ridiculously. But then
we're going to look at how the company
is talking about it. How the management
is talking about it, which is also
somehow super ridiculous and is even
more nuts than how the employees look at
it. Now, a lot of this information comes
from the Wired article. You got to go
check it out. It's linked in the
description. But it starts off with the
title of tell him he's a piece of
Meta's new AI unit is a total mess. Yes,
it is absolutely a total mess. So now
that that little quote, that little line
comes from actually a live town hall in
which thousands of employees were all in
a single meeting video call with some
present presenters going over some sort
of information. Someone just joins,
flips out a mic, goes hot mic and is
just lets out a four-letter rant for the
ages finishing up with hey, you know the
meta AI executives? Yo, go tell Go tell
him he's a piece of Imagine being
in that call because the presenters, it
even says one of the presenters covered
their faces with their hands. A
according to a witness. Of course, you
know why they were covering their faces.
They were laughing, okay? You can't You
can't be showing all the people that
you're laughing at some profanity-laced
AI rant, especially when you're the one
presenting. You just got to You just got
to cover your face and pretend it
doesn't happen. So what's happening is
since April a new org has has formed in
which about 6,500 employees have joined.
Now, they have joined in waves, and it's
described as this. The organization has
grown in batches since early April. It's
crazy to watch people experience the
shock of it as each wave comes in. So,
this organization is not necessarily
known for being fantastic. So, what's
actually happening is that they're
taking all of their talented engineers,
right? These really top talented the
best, the most intelligent engineers
that are possible at Facebook, and
they're assembling them into this team,
and they're given about two tasks per
week to finish. And these tasks, they
involve generating complex software
coding problems to help AI scientists
better train and evaluate the
performance of the latest frontier
models. Meaning, they're not actually
solving or building anything real.
They're coming up with toy examples, toy
coding problems, and actually
like using their collective power of
thousands of engineers to create the
ideal coding examples to train the AI.
So, that means that employees, not only
are they getting their screens recorded,
which by the way, just in case you're
wondering, the screen recording, the
company has scaled the program back
slightly, allowing employees to pause
the data collection for up to 30 minutes
and request specific exemptions. So,
just in case they want to do a little
bit of Twitter following or whatever or
whatever goes on for 30 minutes on an
employee laptop that I do not care to
want to know, they're just asking for
some exemptions, and Facebook has
granted it in their infinite wisdom.
Facebook is not only recording the
desktops, they have thousands of people
handcrafting curated beautiful coding
challenges to make the greatest coding
robot of all time. Like they are
literally hiring and making it explicit.
They're trying to figure out a way to
replace employees, and all these
employees work on it. They're They're
They're actually trying their darndest.
But, how do the engineers feel about
this? Well, the engineers selected for
the unit have no choice to join or leave
the company. That's right. So, if you
were an engineer and you were working on
say some social media feature for the
billions of users of WhatsApp,
Instagram, or Facebook, they say, "Hey,
by the way,
you're in on the new program." And if
you say, "I don't want to be in on the
new program." They're like, "All right,
then leave the company, idiot." An
unusual requirement for a highly valued
technical employees in the Silicon
Valley. That's led some members of the
applied AI to describe themselves as
draftees. Yes, the employees are
actually comparing themselves like this
is their Vietnam. They're like, "Bro,
it's Vie-
>> [laughter]
>> I actually can't even say that with a
straight face. It's so ridiculous. Like
they're actually being forced into this
thing or being fired and they're calling
themselves draftees. It is
It is absolute cinema over there. This,
of course, led to one employee saying,
"It's literally the gulag.
You have zero purpose in life all of a
sudden. You barely interact with anyone.
You just have these tasks every week."
Now, I I do admit that does sound awful.
That does not sound like some kind of
fulfilling job where you're just simply
trying to develop whatever that coding
challenge is that you have to develop
and you're just kind of answering to
this amorphous blob of AI scientists in
which you have no light into. You have
no real meaning or impact at your job.
You have no idea if you're affecting
anybody or nobody. And you actually
don't even know if you're training your
replacement or not. Like I get that.
That would not be that great. I would
probably find myself pretty unhappy and
probably applying around at some
different jobs. But to describe it as a
gulag, the gulag, just in case anybody's
wondering, is best known for random
beatings, brutalized torture, high
amounts of starvation, absolute exposure
to the elements, and lots of diseases
and public defecation. Like
>> [laughter]
>> it is I hate to break this to you, but
your sushi lunches and like not
meaningful work is just not the same as
a gulag.
>> [laughter]
>> I can't I can't I can't even believe it.
I can't believe it. I can't believe I'm
defending
Facebook [laughter] in this situation.
Another employees describe some of these
tasks generating puzzles to test how
reliable AI models from Meta and other
companies can solve them. As easy as
compared to software development work
they had been doing previously, but the
new projects feel menial and almost all
employees seem unhappy, they say. Most
people find their work soul-crushing, a
third employee says. All right, I can't
actually make fun of the employees
anymore. Like I do understand that
boring work can be really, really
frustrating. I do remember sitting in my
car and actually being like, "God, help
me have the patience to do the work at
my job." Cuz I too worked at a
soul-crushing company for quite some
time and
like I In some sense, I do get that
feeling, but it does seem
it does seem a little overblown there.
But how is management responding to all
this? During a meeting this week to all
employees at Instagram, and Meta chief
product officer Chris Cox addressed the
difficult and brutal environment created
by the insanity of this company in the
past few months, according to the
recording heard by Wired. Cox applauded
the Instagram employees for launching
features and serving around 2 billion
users amid what he compared to running a
marathon in the middle of a hailstorm,
and then like your teammates get
replaced, and then we're recording you.
I mean, hey, at least at least he's
somewhat honest about the situation. But
then, you know what he says right
afterwards? He gives a fantastic summary
of AI. Cox said that he needed to reckon
with how he and other leaders could get
in touch with the company again and not
be over-earnest about the power of AI.
It is neither God nor it's the devil, he
said. It's nowhere near as good as you
think it is, and it's nowhere near as
bad as you think it is, and it changes
every day, and it doesn't know what day
of the week it is. Hey, not bad, Chris
Cox, good save. But what is the company
doing? Now, this is, I think, the
largest failure of this entire
situation. Okay, listen to this.
Zuckerberg reiterated a vow not to carry
out additional mass layoffs this year.
Okay,
so he's letting you know, you got 6
months of peace. By the way, just saying
it that way is so nuts. Like he's even
he's saying, "Hey, we're going to
probably lay off more people, just not
right now." He introduced a plan to
limit the number of employees per
manager, which some teams, such as
Applied AI, had deliberately ballooned
to a ratio of 50 to 1. That's That
number makes no sense. Like Jensen Huang
doesn't even have that many, and he's
considered the most unusual CEO of a
company of all time. Like how does this
even happen on a team? Like how do you
even organize or do anything with 50
direct reports? So, the big plan, of
course, is more money for team events,
which, of course, everybody knows team
events is really what makes you happy.
You know, like nothing's better than
spending a little extra time at the
office and getting something bougie out
of it, right? Like that's that's what
makes you a good employee. And the other
one, of course, is a hackathon designed
to bring the company back together
again. Now, let's not We I don't think
we have to think too hard about this
one, okay? I think we could both see the
problem with this.
Now, imagine for a second, you're at a
company in which you've been drafted
into a new organization, you're doing
menial work you're not happy about,
you're getting a lot of tasks you feel
like you have no insight into it, a
bunch of your, you know, co-employees
have all been fired. So, what does
management do? Hey, everybody, let's
recreate Navy SEALs Hell Week, except
instead of trouncing through the ocean
sand, we are instead going to be hacking
on the products you already work on
nonstop for a week. We're going to call
it a hackathon, and then everybody's
going to get pizza and an award at the
end of it. How
do you not see that that's not going
going a good idea? Okay, like I am I am
no Nostradamus,
but hackathons aren't great when people
feel burnt out, okay? This is not a way
to win the employees. Anyways, I just
thought this was so funny because we're
watching in real time one of the largest
companies on Earth slowly implode in on
itself. Now, will it actually implode in
on itself? I don't know. Right now, it's
set on pace to exceed uh Google for ad
revenue. It is by all accounts
absolutely just making hand over fist
money. So, will it actually implode? I
don't know. But, will it lose a lot of
the top-tier talent? Likely. And now,
will that lead it into such a technical
disaster that it has no other choice but
people leaving the platform for
somewhere else? Now, that is actually a
real situation. Again, hundreds of
thousands of Down Detector reports,
Facebook absolutely crashing, and JSON
lexical errors being brought to the
front end, letting you know that a JSON
cannot be parsed. This cannot be a
coincidence, okay? This cannot be a
coincidence. Deep employee morale hits,
plus increasing instability, plus
increasingly weird management decisions,
all are going to come together just to
create some of the worst products on
Earth. I just wanted to talk about this
because
it's just shocking to see. You know, as
somebody who worked in the Valley,
Facebook at one time was considered a
very prestigious place to work, right?
The best engineers got to go work there,
okay? You were going to get treated the
best, you were going to get paid the
most, and you're going to work on
problems that were likely some of the
hardest problems you've worked on,
right? It was supposed to be a great
place to go and work super hard if
that's what you were into. But now, look
at it. It's like
a disaster. It's like every single month
the reporting gets worse and worse
coming out of it. I just
It's It's crazy to see these things
happen to companies in which used to be
the tippity top. All right, anyhow, hey,
the name is
you know, the prime gen, okay, hey, hi.
It's nice to see you. I hope I hope
you're doing well. Are you doing well?
Like what's going on with you, you know?
Do you come here often?
I don't know, you know,
you guys
What are you guys doing? I'm going to
get a haircut. Did you know that?
Yeah, I'm going to get a haircut. It's
honestly, it's just too big like look at
this. Like
like 50% of my head size is devoted to
the hair. I think I just got to do
something about it, you know?
Oh, Jen.
